it's late May and the Cubs are less
gentle they're showing signs of
adolescent aggression play fighting is
essential learning and prepares them to
be able to defend themselves against
other bears in the wild
another gaining ten pounds a month and
developing sharp teeth and claws it's
essential to wear thick gloves I'm sure
your teeth have grown overnight I'm
completely convinced of it look you see
these teeth their place is kind of
relentless you come in and you think oh
they look kind of dozy soon as you come
in they start attacking from every which
way I'm gonna get a double one at the
moment so you've really got it in for me
today okay ready okay it's been a few
months John since you last saw them how
do you think they're looking
yeah they're looking really well good
they've grown tremendously it sort of
speaks for itself in this program what's
really well I think it does work well
and I think the primary reason all of
the behaviors that they need to survive
in the wild are instinctive behaviors
and so we really don't have to teach
them anything we just have to care for
them and get them up to a size where
they can make it out there by next
winter when we're ready to put them out
in the den they will essentially be
within a month or two of women
mother would be booting him out you know
they would be on their own about this
age if you want cooperation you need to
bribe them with a bottle I want to take
you home okay
by December these little chaps to be
ready for hibernation so we'll be taking
them up to the wilderness putting them
into a den and leaving them there for
the winter and then when they're ready
to come out they will have forgotten all
about their human contact and be ready
to become real wild bears joining their
cousins
you